Have you ever accidentally
deleted something on your device and wished you
could undo your mistake? Wouldn't it be great if
you had a time machine to go back and
undo your mistake? While humans can't yet
to travel back in time, programmers working on projects can do something quite like it. They do this using a system
called version control. As a programmer, you'll be
working with many files in your project and
it's important to keep track of the
changes being made. Version control is a
system that records all changes and modifications to files for tracking purposes, and is essential to your day-to-day
development activities. In this course, you will
become familiar with version control and how it
relates to development. By the end of your studies, you'll understand what
version control is, how it works and how it is used. There are both centralized and distributed control systems available and you'll examine the different types of
workflows available. Conflict resolution is an important aspect
of version control as it helps users manage file and version
conflict issues. You'll get to explore popular
methods of version tracking using version control
technologies like Git and GitHub, and you will learn
how to create and clone a repository in GitHub. In addition, you
will become familiar with Git concepts such as add, commit, push and pull, branching and forking,
diff and blame. As well as focusing
on version control, the course also
explores the use of command-line syntax with an
emphasis on Unix commands. There are many videos
in your course that will gradually guide
you toward that goal. Watch, pause, rewind, and re-watch the videos until you are confident
in your skills. Then you'll be able to consolidate your
knowledge by consulting the course readings
and put your skills into practice during
the course exercises. Along the way, you'll
encounter several knowledge quizzes where you
can self-check your progress. You're not alone in considering a career as a web developer, and the course
discussion prompts enable you to connect
with your classmates. It's a great way to
share knowledge, discuss difficulties,
and make new friends. To help you be successful
in the course, it's a great idea to commit to a regular and
discipline approach to your learning regime. You need to be as serious as you can about your study
and if possible, map out a study
schedule with dates and times that you can devote
to attending the course. Of course, this is an online self-paced program
and you can study a dates, times, and places that
suit your lifestyle. However, it might
help to think of your study in terms of
regular attendance, just as you might have to do at a physical
learning institute. You may have encountered new technical words and
terminology in this video. Don't worry if you don't fully understand all these
terms right now, everything you need will be
covered during your learning. In summary, this course
provides you with a complete introduction
to version control and it is part of a program
of courses that lead you towards a career in
software development.